In the last lecture, we made our routing work, we added routes and we gave Angular a place to load our
currently active component
but one issue we have is right now we can only navigate around by manually typing it here in the address
bar.
Not super convenient
and while it is important to be able to load a route directly from the address bar, it would also be
nice to have some working links here in our navigation to have these tabs work.
So let's add some links to our application and if we go to our app component, we see here's our navigation.
The first thing you might think about is, hey we can or we already have this ref attribute here to be
precise,
so here we could have ref, well just slash to load our root route,
here we could have /servers and here we could have /users
and if we now save this, we added all the routes, the paths we set up in our routes configuration to our
navigation here
and hence if this reloads and we click the tabs, hey this is indeed working,
now we are correctly loading the route we want to load.
OK
this tab is not updated but I will come back to this later
but the reloading is working and that's the issue,
it's reloading the app. Watch this reload icon here, do you see this?
We refreshed the app with every link we click
and that's the natural behavior because with every link we click, a new request gets sent to the server
and it returns as a new page
and since this page is still our Angular app with the routes registered on it,
it is able to give us the correct route.
So the same thing happens as if we enter this manually here.
That however is not the best behavior because it means it restarts our app on every navigation,
that of course means our whole application state will be lost and it might not really be the behavior
we want to offer to the user.
So this is not how you should implement navigation. How should you implement it then?
There is a special directive Angular gives us, let's get rid of all these ref attributes here,
so this is not how we will navigate around.
Instead let's use this special directive,
it's called routerLink.
Now routerLink, like this simply is able to parse a string where we could pass just slash, so just this
string slash to routerLink here.
Now this will tell Angular that this element on which routerLink is placed here, this anchor tag here
will serve as a link in the end but it will handle a click differently as you will see in a second.
Let's now also add this to the service links, so routerLink equals /servers
and I will come back to how you may write the path here in the next lecture. Another way of using
routerLink is with property binding, so you can enclose it in square brackets
and now of course you can't just pass /users here because this would now search for a property with
that name which would even be an invalid name in Javascript.
So now you have to pass a string here with single quotation marks
or better, an array which gives you a more finegrained control over routerLink and I will come back
to this later
when this is especially useful. Here in this array,
you now specify all the segments of your path as elements in this array.
So the first segment in this case is only a string/users
and if you had /users slash something, you would have a second element here which is then just something
without a slash. The leading slash here is only needed to make this an absolute path and I will come back
to this in the next lecture.
For now, I will get rid of this,
now this array notation is not super convenient but soon you will see when it really gives you an advantage
or when you need this notation, it allows you to construct more complex paths very easily.
So with this, we set up our three links using routerLink either by passing a string or this array which
allows us to define our individual path elements. With that if we save this and have a look at our application,
now you see it's still reloads or it still gives us the components but it doesn't reload the
page.
If you watch this reload icon,
nothing is happening there because routerLink catches the click on the element, prevents the default
which would be to send a request and instead analyzes what we passed here to the routerLink directive,
so this path or this array of path elements and then parses it and checks if it finds a fitting
route in our configuration which it of course does because we defined all the paths we're using here.
And this is how we can navigate around with a routerLink
and this actually is how we should navigate around because it gives us the better user experience,
it doesn't restart our app, therefore it keeps the app state and it's much faster than reloading the
page all the time.
You can of course still type something here manually,
so that will still work
but if you are inside of the app, using routerLink is much better.